.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, 2012 Hilmar Preusse <hille42@web.de>
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Norbert Preining <preining@logic.at> 
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later
.\" version.
.\" 
.\" This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
.\" along with this program.  if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" 
.TH "UPDMAP.CFG" "20" "November 2012" "TeX Live" "TeX Live"
.SH "NAME"
\fBupdmap.cfg\fR \- configuration of font mapping/inclusion for dvips and
friends.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The file \fBupdmap.cfg\fR is the central font configuration file of a
teTeX system and is read by \fBupdmap\fP(1). It describes if and how
fonts should be included (or not included) into PS-/PDF-files. This
works for Outline (Postscript Type1) and Bitmap Fonts (Postscript
Type3) mostly coming from MetaFont.
.PP
\fBupdmap\fP is a utility that creates font configuration files for
\fBdvips\fP(1), \fBpdftex\fP(1), \fBxdvi\fP(1), \fBps2pk\fP(1),
\fBgsftopk\fP(1), and \fBdvipdfmx\fP(1)\&.  In
an ideal world, updmap would be unnecessary -- each of these programs
would read the same configuration file to learn what fonts are
available and how they should be treated\&.  As things stand, however,
each of these tools has subtly different requirements and thereby
needs its own font configuration file\&.  \fBupdmap\fP creates font
configuration files for all of these programs from several sources,
namely all \fBupdmap.cfg\fR, allowing you to easily keep all the different
configuration files in sync\&.
.P
Running "updmap --help" will output the main documentation for using
\fBupdmap\fR.
.P
\fBdvipsPreferOutline\fR
.br
Configures if \fBdvips\fR (by default) should prefer bitmap fonts or outline fonts
if both are available? Independent of this setting, outlines can be forced
by putting "p psfonts_t1.map" into a config file that dvips reads. Bitmaps
can be forced by putting "p psfonts_pk.map" into a config file. We provide
such config files which can be enabled via
\fBdvips\fR \fI-Poutline\fR (resp. \fBdvips\fR \fI-Ppk\fR).
.br
Valid settings for dvipsPreferOutline are \fItrue\fR / \fIfalse\fR.
.P
\fBLW35\fR
.br
Which fonts of the "Basic 35 Laserwriter Fonts" do you want to use and
how are the filenames chosen? Valid settings:
.br
URW:     URW fonts with "vendor" filenames (e.g. n019064l.pfb)
.br
URWkb:   URW fonts with "berry" filenames (e.g. uhvbo8ac.pfb)
.br
ADOBE:   Adobe fonts with "vendor" filenames (e.g. hvnbo___.pfb)
.br
ADOBEkb: Adobe fonts with  "berry" filenames (e.g. phvbo8an.pfb)
.P
\fBdvipsDownloadBase35\fR
.br
Configures if \fBdvips\fR (by default) should download the 35 base
PostScript fonts into the document (set \fItrue\fR) or should these
fonts be used from the ps interpreter / printer (set \fIfalse\fR).
.br
The user can override the default by specifying \fBdvips\fR \fI-Pdownload35\fR
(resp. \fBdvips\fR \fI-Pbuiltin35\fR) to download the LW35 fonts
(resp. use the built-in fonts).
.br
Valid settings are \fItrue\fR / \fIfalse\fR.
.P
\fBpdftexDownloadBase14\fR
.br
Should \fBpdftex\fR download the 14 base PDF fonts? Since some configurations
(ps / pdf tools / printers) use bad default fonts, it is safer to download
the fonts. The pdf files get bigger, but that is the cost.
.br
Valid settings are \fItrue\fR (download the fonts) or \fIfalse\fR (don't
download the fonts). Adobe recommends embedding all fonts.
.P
\fBpxdviUse\fR
.br
Should special map files for pxdvi be created? pxdvi is an adaption of xdvi
with support for reading and displaying files generated by the ptex family
of engines.
.br
Valid settings are \fItrue\fR (generate configuration) or \fIfalse\fR. See
http://www.tug.org/texlive/updmap-kanji.html for detailed discussion.
.P
\fBkanjiEmbed\fR
.br
\fBkanjiVariant\fR
.br
The options \fBkanjiEmbed\fR and \fBkanjiVariant\fR specify special
replacements in the map lines.  In a map, the string "@kanjiEmbed@"
will be replaced by the value of that option; similarly for
\fBkanjiVariant\fR.  In this way, users of Japanese TeX can select
different fonts to be included in the final output.
.P
\fBMap\fR
.br
Points to a map file, which describes a mapping from a font (called in the TeX
document) to the pfb file containing the Postscript code.
.br
Usage: \fBMap\fR filename.map
.P
The syntax of map files is the same as \fBdvips\fP(1) uses, see the
section "psfonts.map" in the manual of \fBdvips\fP(1).
.P
\fBMixedMap\fR
.br
Similar to \fBMap\fR. It should be used when there is Type1 and a bitmap
implementation of the font (the latter mostly coming from MetaFont). These
entries will not be used in the default map of \fBdvips\fR if
\fBdvipsPreferOutline\fR is set to \fIfalse\fR.
.br
Usage: \fBMixedMap\fR filename.map
.P
\fBKanjiMap\fR
.br
Similar to \fBMap\fR. This should be used for kanji fonts.
.br
Usage: \fBKanjiMap\fR filename.map
.P
The sign \fB#\fR precedes a comment.
.P
Map files not to be used should be commented out using the string
\fB#!\fR at the beginning of the line. Such entries can be
(de-)activated using \fBupdmap\fR with the options \fI--enable\fR and
\fI--disable\fR, respectively.

.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Hilmar Preusse <hille42@web.de> and 
extended by Norbert Preining <preining@logic.at>, for
the Debian GNU/Linux system by simply copying the comments from
\fBupdmap.cfg\fR and rewriting some of them. It may be used by other
distributions without contacting the author. Any mistakes or omissions in
the manual page are our fault; inquiries about or corrections to this manual
page should be directed to tex-live@tug.org.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
updmap(1), dvips(1)

.SH "THANKS TO"
Frank Kuester,
Thomas Esser.
