.TH BIBTEX8 "1" "March 2019" "bibtex8 3.71" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bibtex8 \- 8-bit Big BibTeX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bibtex8
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIaux-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BibTeX8
is an 8-bit implementation of BibTeX written in C.
It has been enhanced by adding the following features:
.PP
- "big" (32-bit) and customisable capacity
.PP
- flexible support for non-English languages using 8-bit character sets
.PP
.B BibTeX8
accepts 8-bit characters in its input files, and writes 8-bit
characters to its output files.  The character set is defined by an
external configuration file --- the Codepage and Sort order ("CS") file.
By default, it reads a specific CS file "88591lat.csf", which defines
ISO 8859-1 character set and its alphabetical sorting order including
accented characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR  \fB\-\-help\fR
display some brief help text.
.TP
\fB\-7\fR  \fB\-\-traditional\fR
operate in the original 7\-bit mode, no CS file used.
Only 7\-bit ASCII characters are supported, and they are
sorted by ASCII code value.
.TP
\fB\-8\fR  \fB\-\-8bit\fR
force 8\-bit mode, no CS file used.
All 8\-bit characters (code > 127) are treated as letters,
and they are sorted by their code value.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR  \fB\-\-csfile\fR FILE
read FILE as the BibTeX character set
and sort definition file.
Note that options \fB\-7\fR, \fB\-8\fR and \fB\-c\fR are exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR  \fB\-\-debug\fR TYPE
report debugging information.  TYPE is one
or more of all, csf, io, mem, misc, search.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR  \fB\-\-statistics\fR
report internal statistics.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR  \fB\-\-trace\fR
report execution tracing.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR  \fB\-\-version\fR
report BibTeX version.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR  \fB\-\-big\fR
set large BibTeX capacity.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR  \fB\-\-huge\fR
set huge BibTeX capacity.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR  \fB\-\-wolfgang\fR
set really huge BibTeX capacity for Wolfgang.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR  \fB\-\-min_crossrefs\fR ##
set min_crossrefs to ##.
.TP
\fB\-\-mcites\fR ##
allow ## \ecites in the .aux files (deprecated).
.TP
\fB\-\-mentints\fR ##
allow ## integer entries in the .bib databases (deprecated).
.TP
\fB\-\-mentstrs\fR ##
allow ## string entries in the .bib databases (deprecated).
.TP
\fB\-\-mfields\fR ##
allow ## fields in the .bib databases (deprecated).
.TP
\fB\-\-mpool\fR ##
set the string pool to ## bytes (deprecated).
.TP
\fB\-\-mstrings\fR ##
allow ## unique strings.
.TP
\fB\-\-mwizfuns\fR ##
allow ## wizard functions (deprecated).
.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed description of
.B BibTeX8
is available at $TEXMFDIST/doc/bibtex8/00readme.txt.
The syntax of Codepage and Sort order (CS) File can be found at
$TEXMFDIST/doc/bibtex8/csfile.txt.
.SH AUTHORS
.B BibTeX8
was written by Niel Kempson <kempson@snowyowl.co.uk> and
Alejandro Aguilar-Sierra <asierra@servidor.unam.mx>.
This manpage was written for TeX Live, based on the work
by Norbert Preining for Debian/GNU Linux.
