.TH chkweb 1 "March 30, 2001"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
chkweb \- runs the LaTeX parts of a CWEB file through chktex
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chkweb
.I [-hiqrW] [-l <rcfile>] [-[wemn] <[1-42]|all>]
.I [-d[0-...]] [-o <outfile>] [-[btxgI][0|1]]
.B file1 file2 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I chkweb
runs the
.I LaTeX
parts of a CWEB file through chktex.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Miscellaneous options:
.TP
.B "-h --help"
Print a help screen.
.TP
.B "-i --license"
Show distribution information.
.TP
.B "-l --localrc"
Read local .chktexrc formatted  file.
.TP
.B "-d --debug"
Debug information. Give it a number.
.TP
.B "-r --reset"
Reset settings to default.
.PP
Muting warning messages:
.TP
.B "-w --warnon"
Makes msg # given a warning and turns it on.
.TP
.B "-e  --erroron"
Makes msg # given an error and turns it on.
.TP
.B "-m --msgon"
Makes msg # given a message and turns it on.
.TP
.B "-n --nowarn"
Mutes msg # given.

.PP
Output control flags:
.TP
.B "-V --pipeverb"
How errors are displayed when stdout != tty.
Defaults to the same as -v.
.TP
.B "-s --splitchar"
String used to split fields when doing -v0
.TP
.B "-o --output"
Redirect error report to a file.
.TP
.B "-q --quiet"
Shuts up about version information.
.TP
.B "-f --format"
Format to use for output

.PP
Boolean switches (1 -> enables / 0 -> disables):
.TP
.B "-b --backup"
Backup output file.
.TP
.B "-x --wipeverb"
Ignore contents of `\\verb' commands.
.TP
.B "-g --globalrc"
Read global .chktexrc file.
.TP
.B "-I --inputfiles"
Execute \\input statements.
.TP
.B "-H --headererr"
Show errors found in front of \\begin{document}
.PP Miscellaneous switches:
.TP
.B "-W --version"
Version information

.PP
If no LaTeX files are specified on the command line, we will read from
stdin.   For explanation of warning/error messages, please consult the
main document /usr/share/doc/chktex/ChkTeX.dvi.gz.

.SH DISTRIBUTION
Copyright (C) 1996 Jens T. Berger Thielemann
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the 
.I GNU General Public License 
as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but
.B WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of
.B MERCHANTABILITY
or
.B FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the
.I GNU General Public License
for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the 
.B GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the
.I Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

.SH ENVIRONMENT
No environment variables are used.
.SH FILES
None.
.SH AUTHOR
Jens T. Berger Thielemann,
.I <jensthi@ifi.uio.no>
.PP
This manual page was cobbled together by Clint Adams <schizo@debian.org>,
based on the output of "chktex --help" and deweb(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B deweb(1), chktex(1)
