.TH CONFIG 1 "14 June 2021"
.SH NAME
config \- Configure \fIa-Shell\fP.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBconfig\fP [ -s font size ]
  [ -n \fIfont_name\fP? ]
  [ -b \fIbackground_color\fP ]
  [ -f \fIforeground_color\fP ]
  [ -c \fIcursor_color\fP ]
  [ -g | --global ]
  [ -p | --permanent ]
  [ -r | --reset ]
  [ -d | --default ]
  [ --show ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBconfig\fP can change the settings of the current session,
the settings of all open sessions,
or the default settings for new sessions.
.PP
For all parameters:
specify "\fIdefault\fP" to get the default value currently stored,
"\fIfactory\fP" to get a-Shell factory defaults.
.PP
Colors can be defined by names,
RGB triplets (i.e. red green blue),
or HexStrings (i.e. '#00FF00').
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h | --help\fP
Display usage for \fBconfig\fP.
.TP
\fB-s | --size\fP \fISIZE\fP
Set the font size to \fISIZE\fP `pt'.
This should be a number.
Don't include units.
.TP
\fB-n | --name\fP \fINAME\fP?
Set font name to \fINAME\fP or show a font picker dialog.
.PP
If \fINAME\fP is not given or is \fIpicker\fP,
the system font picker dialog is shown.
.TP
\fB-b | --background\fP [ \fIFULL_COLOR\fP | \fICOLOR_R COLOR_G COLOR_B\fP ]
Set background color to \fIFULL_COLOR\fP
or to \fIrgb(COLOR_R, COLOR_G, COLOR_B)\fP,
where each component ranges from zero to one.
.TP
\fB-f | --foreground\fP [ \fICOLOR\fP | \fICOLOR_R COLOR_G COLOR_B\fP ]
Set foreground color
.TP
\fB-c | --cursor\fP [ \fICOLOR\fP | \fICOLOR_R COLOR_G COLOR_B\fP ]
set cursor and highlight color.
.TP
\fB-g | --global\fP
Apply settings to all windows currently open
.TP
\fB-p | --permanent\fP
Store settings as default values
.TP
\fB-d | --default\fP
Reset all settings to default values
.TP
\fB-r | --reset\fP
Reset all settings to factory defaults
.TP
\fB--show\fP
Show current settings
.SS Examples
.TP
\fBconfig -p\fP
Make settings for current window the default for future windows.
.TP
\fBconfig -dgp\fP
Revert all open and future windows to stored default.
.TP
\fBconfig -b 0 0 0 -f #00ff00\fP
Get a green-on-black VT100 look.
.TP
\fBconfig -p -b 0 0 0 -f 1 0.5 1\fP
Set the current session's background
to black (rgb 0 0 0) with a magenta
foreground.
Make this the default configuration.

