.TH JSI 1 "13 June 2021"
.SH NAME
jsi \- An interactive JavaScript shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjsi\fP [ -w ] [ --prompt \fIPROMPT\fP ] [ --no-banner ]
 [ --no-color ] [ -c \fIJS\fP ]
 [ --force-inspect ] [ -d \fIINSPECTDEPTH\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjsi\fP is a convenient way to run JavaScript.
It both accepts input via \fIstdin\fP and the command line.
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-h | --help\fP
Display a short help message.
.TP
\fB-w | --in-window\fP
Run JavaScript in the same \fIWkWebView\fP as \fIa-Shell\fP's terminal UI.
.PP
If this option is given, \fIterm_\fP provides an
(\fBunstable\fP) terminal API.
.TP
\fB--prompt\fP \fIPROMPT\fP
Specify the prompt string.
By default, the prompt is \fI% \fP.
Note that this prompt is only printed if input is from the terminal.
.TP
\fB--no-banner\fP
Don't show a welcome message when entering interactive mode.
When not entering interactive mode, a welcome message is never shown.
.TP
\fB--no-color\fP
Disable colorized output.
This also disables autocomplete and autosuggest.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIJS\fP | \fB--exec\fP \fIJS\fP
Execute \fIJS\fP instead of entering interactive mode or reading from standard input.
.TP
\fB--force-inspect\fP
Print the details of expressions' resultant objects,
even if \fBjsi\fP is not in interactive mode.
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIINSPECTDEPTH\fP | \fB--inspect-depth\fP \fIINSPECTDEPTH\fP
Print \fIINSPECT\fP levels of sub-objects when inspecting an object.
By default, this is zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
jsc(1)
.SH BUGS
On small screens, colorized input and autocomplete may not function
properly in \fIa-Shell\fP.
This is likely a bug in either an underlying library (\fIprompt_toolkit\fP)
or in \fIa-Shell\fP.
.PP
New variables (e.g. \fIlet foo = 3\fP) may not show up in auto-suggest
until a property of them is referenced.
In the case of \fIfoo\fP, a user would have to type \fIfoo.something\fP
to see \fIfoo\fP in the auto-suggest list.
