.TH LATEX 1 "30 April 2018" "Web2C 2019"
.\"=====================================================================
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP\"
.el .ds OX TeX\"
.\" BX definition must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definition must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
latex, pdflatex, xelatex, lualatex, dvilualatex, cslatex, pdfcslatex, platex, uplatex, lamed \- structured text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B latex
.RI [ first-line ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page is a mere skeleton.
.PP
The \*(LX language is described in the book
.IR "\*(LX \- A Document Preparation System" .
\*(LX is a \*(TX macro package, not a modification to the \*(TX source
program, so all the capabilities described in
.BR tex (1)
are present.
.PP
The \*(LX macros encourage writers to think about the content of their
documents, rather than the form.  The ideal, very difficult to realize, is to
have no formatting commands (like ``switch to italic'' or ``skip 2
picas'') in the document at all; instead, everything is done
by specific markup instructions: ``emphasize'', ``start a section''.
.PP
The primary source of documentation for \*(LX is the \*(LX manual 
referenced below.
.PP
.BR lualatex ,
.BR pdflatex ,
.BR pdfcslatex ,
.B xelatex
are \*(LX formats based on the respective engines.  All output PDF by default.
.br
.BR platex ,
.B uplatex
are Japanese \*(LX formats based on e-pTeX and e-upTeX (DVI output).
.br
.B lamed
is the Aleph-based \*(LX format (DVI output).
.br
.B dvilualatex
is LuaTeX-based and outputs DVI.
.br
.B cslatex
is csTeX-based (primitives integrated into pdfTeX) and outputs DVI.
.PP
On some systems
.B latex209
and
.B slitex
may still be available for compatibility with older versions of \*(LX.  These
should not be used for new texts.
.\"=====================================================================
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR amstex (1),
.BR luatex (1),
.BR pdftex (1),
.BR ptex (1),
.BR tex (1),
.BR xetex (1).
.PP
Leslie Lamport,
.IR "\*(LX \- A Document Preparation System" ,
Addison-Wesley, 1985, ISBN 020115790X.
.PP
Frank Mittelbach, Michel Goossens, Johannes Braams, David Carlisle,
and Chris Rowley, 
.IR "LaTeX Companion" ,
Addison-Wesley, 2004, ISBN 0201362996 (2nd edition).
.PP
The \*(LX home page is http://latex-project.org.
.br
A list of some \*(LX tutorials is at
http://www.tex.ac.uk/cgi-bin/texfaq2html?label=man-latex.
.br
An unofficial reference manual for \*(LX is at
https://ctan.org/pkg/latex2e-help-texinfo.
