.TH LUATEX 1 "27 May 2018" "Web2C 2019"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.if n .ds WB Web
.if t .ds WB W\s-2EB\s0
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
luatex, dviluatex, luajittex, texlua, texluac \- An extended version of pdfTeX using Lua as
an embedded scripting language
.\"=====================================================================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B luatex
.RB [ \-\-lua=\fIFILE\fP ]
.RI [ OPTION ].\|.\|.
.RI [ TEXNAME [ \fB.tex\fP ]]
.RI [ COMMANDS ]
.br
.B luatex
.RB [ \-\-lua=\fIFILE\fP ]
.RI [ OPTION ].\|.\|.
.BI \e FIRST\-LINE
.br
.B luatex
.RB [ \-\-lua=\fIFILE\fP ]
.RI [ OPTION ].\|.\|.
.BI & FMT
.RI [ ARGS ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
Run the lua\*(TX typesetter on
.IR TEXNAME ,
usually creating
.IR TEXNAME\fB.pdf\fP .
Any remaining
.I COMMANDS
are processed as lua\*(TX input, after
.I TEXNAME
is read.

Alternatively, if the first non\-option argument begins with a backslash,
interpret all non\-option arguments as a line of lua\*(TX input.

Alternatively, if the first non\-option argument begins with a \fB&\fR,
the
next word is taken as the \fIFMT\fR to read, overriding all else. Any
remaining arguments are processed as above.

If no arguments or options are specified, prompt for input.

If called as \fBtexlua\fR it acts as lua interpreter.
If called as \fBtexluac\fR it acts as lua bytecode compiler.

Lua\*(TX is an extended version of pdf\*(TX with Unicode and OpenType
font support, embedded \fBLua\fR scripting language, the \fBe-\*(TX\fR
and \fBOmega\fR extensions, as well as integrated MetaPost engine, that
can create \fIPDF\fR files as well as \fIDVI\fR files.
For more information about luatex, see http://www.luatex.org, you can
read Lua\*(TX manual using texdoc utility (\fBtexdoc luatex\fR).

All Lua\*(TX text input and output is considered to be Unicode text.

In \fIDVI\fR mode, lua\*(TX can be used as a complete replacement for
the \*(TX engine.

In \fIPDF\fR mode, lua\*(TX can natively handle the \fIPDF\fR, \fIJPG\fR,
\fIJBIG2\fR, and \fIPNG\fR graphics formats.  lua\*(TX cannot include
PostScript or Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) graphics files; first convert
them to PDF using \fBepstopdf\fR (1).

.\"=====================================================================
.SH "OPTIONS"
When the Lua\*(TX executable starts, it looks for the \fB\-\-lua\fR
command-line option.
If there is no \fB\-\-lua\fR option, the command line is interpreted in a
similar fashion as in traditional pdf\*(TX and Aleph. But if the option
is present, Lua\*(TX will enter an alternative mode of command-line parsing
in comparison to the standard web2c programs. The presence of \fB--lua\fR
makes most of other options unreliable, because the lua initialization
file can disable kpathsea and/or hook functions into various callbacks.
.ig
Here is the list of possibly affected switches/functionality, and why:
..
.TP
.BI "\-\-lua=" FILE
The lua initialization file.
.PP
The following two options alter the executable behaviour:
.TP
.B \-\-luaonly
Start Lua\*(TX as a Lua interpreter. In this mode, it will set Lua's
\fIarg[0]\fR to the found script name, pushing preceding options in
negative values and the rest of the command line in the positive values,
just like the Lua interpreter. Lua\*(TX will exit immediately after
executing the specified Lua script.
.TP
.BI \-\-luaconly
Start Lua\*(TX as a Lua byte compiler. In this mode, Lua\*(TX is exactly
like \fBluac\fR from the standalone Lua distribution, except that it
does not have the \fB\-l\fR switch, and that it accepts (but ignores)
the \fB\-\-luaconly\fR switch.
.PP
Then the regular web2c options:
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-format
.br
Debug format loading.
.TP
.B \-\-draftmode
Sets \epdfdraftmode so lua\*(TX doesn't write a PDF and doesn't read
any included images, thus speeding up execution.
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-write18
.br
Synonym for \fB\-\-shell\-escape\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-write18
.br
Synonym for \fB\-\-no\-shell\-escape\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-shell\-escape
.br
Enable the
.BI \ewrite18{ command }
construct, and Lua functions \fBos.execute()\fR, \fBos.exec()\fR,
\fBos.spawn()\fR, and \fBio.popen()\fR.  The \fIcommand\fR can be any
shell command.  This construct is normally disallowed for security
reasons.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-shell-escape
.br
Disable the
.BI \ewrite18{ command }
construct and the other Lua functions, even if it is enabled in the
\fItexmf.cnf\fR file.
.TP
.B \-\-shell-restricted
Enable restricted version of \fB\ewrite18\fR, \fBos.execute()\fR,
\fBos.exec()\fR, \fBos.spawn()\fR, and \fBio.popen()\fR, only commands
listed in \fItexmf.cnf\fR file are allowed.
.TP
.B \-\-file\-line\-error
Print error messages in the form \fIfile:line:error\fR which is similar
to the way many compilers format them.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-file\-line\-error
Disable printing error messages in the \fIfile:line:error\fR style.
.TP
.BI "\-\-fmt=" FORMAT
Use \fIFORMAT\fR as the name of the format to be used, instead of the
name by which lua\*(TX was called or a \fI%&\fR line.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-ini
Start in \fIINI\fR mode, which is used to dump formats.  The \fIINI\fR
mode can be used for typesetting, but no format is preloaded, and basic
initializations like setting catcodes may be required.
.TP
.BI "\-\-interaction=" MODE
Sets the interaction mode.  The \fIMODE\fR can be either
.IR batchmode ,
.IR nonstopmode ,
.IR scrollmode ,
and
.IR errorstopmode .
The meaning of these modes is the same as that of the corresponding
\ecommands.
.TP
.BI "\-\-jobname=" NAME
Use \fINAME\fR for the job name, instead of deriving it from the name
of the input file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-kpathsea-debug=" BITMASK
Sets path searching debugging flags according to the \fIBITMASK\fR.
See the \fIKpathsea\fR manual for details.
.TP
.BI "\-\-mktex=" FMT
Enable mktex\fIFMT\fR generation, where \fIFMT\fR must be either \fItex\fR
or \fItfm\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-nosocket
Disable the luasocket (network) library.
.TP
.TP
.BI "\-\-output\-comment=" STRING
In \fIDVI\fR mode, use \fISTRING\fR for the \fIDVI\fR file comment
instead of the date.  This option is ignored in\fIPDF\fR mode.
.TP
.BI "\-\-output\-directory=" DIRECTORY
Write output files in \fIDIRECTORY\fR instead of the current directory.
Look up input files in \fIDIRECTORY\fR first, then along the normal
search path.
.TP
.BI "\-\-output\-format=" FORMAT
Set the output format mode, where \fIFORMAT\fR must be either \fIpdf\fR
or \fIdvi\fR.
This also influences the set of graphics formats understood by lua\*(TX.
.TP
.BI "\-\-progname=" NAME
Pretend to be program \fINAME\fR (only for kpathsea).
.TP
.B \-\-recorder
Enable the filename recorder.
This leaves a trace of the files opened for input and output
in a file with extension \fI.fls\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-safer
Disable some Lua commands that can easily be abused by a malicious
document.
.TP
.BI "\-\-synctex=" NUMBER
Enable/disable Sync\*(TX extension.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-credits
Print credits and version details.
.TP
The following options are ignored:
.TP
.BR \-\-8bit ,\  \-\-etex ,\  \-\-parse\-first\-line ,\  \-\-no\-parse\-first\-line
These are always on.
.TP
.BR \-\-default\-translate\-file=\fITCXNAME\fP  ,\  \-\-translate\-file=\fITCXNAME\fP
These are always off.

.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdftex (1),
.BR etex (1),
.BR aleph (1),
.BR lua (1).
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "AUTHORS"
The primary authors of Lua\*(TX are Taco Hoekwater, Hartmut Henkel,
Hans Hagen, and Luigi Scarso, with help from Martin Schr\[:o]der, Karel
Skoupy, and Han The Thanh.
.PP
\*(TX was designed by Donald E. Knuth, who implemented it using his
\*(WB system for Pascal programs.
It was ported to Unix at Stanford by Howard Trickey, and at Cornell by
Pavel Curtis.
The version now offered with the Unix \*(TX distribution is that generated
by the \*(WB to C system (\fBweb2c\fR), originally written by Tomas
Rokicki and Tim Morgan.
.PP
The Lua\*(TX home page is http://luatex.org.
