.TH MKTEXTFM 1 "1 March 2011" "Kpathsea 6.3.1"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MP MetaPost
.if t .ds MP MetaPost
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF M\s-2ETAFONT\s0
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP for troff
.el .ds OX TeX for nroff
.\" the same but obliqued
.\" BX definition must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definition must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
mktextfm \- create a TFM file for a font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktextfm
.RI [ options ]
.I font
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete
documentation for this version of \*(TX can be found in the info file
or manual
.IR "Kpathsea: A library for path searching" .
.PP
.B mktextfm
is used to generate a
.I tfm
file from the \*(MF source files for
.IR font ,
if possible.  If
.I destdir
is given, the generated file will be installed there, otherwise a
(rather complicated) heuristic is used.
.PP
The name of the generated file is printed on standard output.
.PP
.B mktextfm
is typically called by other programs, rather than from the command
line.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.B mktextfm
accepts the following options:
.TP
.BI --destdir \ dir
A directory name. If the directory is absolute, it is used as-is.
Otherwise, it is appended to the root destination directory set in the
script.
.TP
.B --help
Print help message and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Print version information and exit.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mktexmf (1),
.BR mktexpk (1).
