.TH MKTEXPK 1 "1 March 2011" "Kpathsea 6.3.1"
.\"=====================================================================
.if n .ds MP MetaPost
.if t .ds MP MetaPost
.if n .ds MF Metafont
.if t .ds MF M\s-2ETAFONT\s0
.if t .ds TX \fRT\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X\fP
.if n .ds TX TeX
.ie t .ds OX \fIT\v'+0.25m'E\v'-0.25m'X\fP for troff
.el .ds OX TeX for nroff
.\" the same but obliqued
.\" BX definition must follow TX so BX can use TX
.if t .ds BX \fRB\s-2IB\s0\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds BX BibTeX
.\" LX definition must follow TX so LX can use TX
.if t .ds LX \fRL\\h'-0.36m'\\v'-0.15v'\s-2A\s0\\h'-0.15m'\\v'0.15v'\fP\*(TX
.if n .ds LX LaTeX
.\"=====================================================================
.SH NAME
mktexpk \- create a PK file for a font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktexpk
.RI [ options ]
.I font
.RI [ redirect ]
.\"=====================================================================
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete
documentation for this version of \*(TX can be found in the info file
or manual
.IR "Kpathsea: A library for path searching" .
.PP
.B mktexpk
is used to generate a
.I pk
file from the \*(MF source files or type1 sources for
.IR font ,
if possible.
.PP
If
.I redirect
is given, it must be string of the form
.BI >& n
where
.I n
is the number of the file descriptor which is to receive, instead of
standard output, the name of the generated file.
.PP
.B mktexpk
is typically called by other programs, rather than from the command
line.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH OPTIONS
.B mktexpk
accepts the following options:
.TP
.BI --bdpi \ num
Set the base device resolution.
.TP
.BI --dpi \ num
Generate the font at resolution
.IR num .
.TP
.B --help
Print help message and exit.
.TP
.BI --mag \ mag
The \*(MF magnification that corresponds to the combination of
.I bdpi
and
.I dpi
that has been specified.
.TP
.BI --mfmode \ mode
The \*(MF mode to use.
.TP
.BI --destdir \ dir
A directory name. If the directory is absolute, it is used as-is.
Otherwise, it is appended to the root destination directory set in the
script.
.TP
.B --version
Print version information and exit.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH BUGS
If the
.I mode
is not specified,
.B mktexpk
tries to determine it from
.IR bdpi .
The manner in which this is done is primitive.  Since
.I bpdi
doesn't provide sufficient information to uniquely determine a
.I mode
it is strongly recommended that it be specified explicitly.
.PP
If the
.I mode
and
.I bpdi
don't match, the
.I mode
is discarded.
.PP
The
.I dpi
parameter is redundant, but is not checked for consistency.  Worse,
the program will fail if the wrong
.I dpi
is specified.
.\"=====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mktexmf (1),
.BR mktextfm (1).
