.TH pdftosrc 1 "16 June 2015" "Web2C 2019"
.SH NAME
pdftosrc \- extract source file or stream from PDF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftosrc
.I PDF-file
.RI [ stream-object-number ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If only
.I PDF-file
is given as argument,
.B pdftosrc
extracts the embedded source file
from the first found stream object
with /Type /SourceFile within the
.I PDF-file
and writes it to a file with the name /SourceName
as defined in that PDF stream object
(see application example below).

If both
.I PDF-file
and
.I stream-object-number
are given as arguments, and
.I stream-object-number
is positive,
.B pdftosrc
extracts and uncompresses the PDF stream of the object
given by its
.I stream-object-number
from the
.I PDF-file
and writes it to a file named
.IR PDF-file . stream-object-number
with the ending
.B .pdf
or
.B .PDF
stripped from the original
.I PDF-file
name.

A special case is related to XRef object streams that are part
of the PDF standard from PDF-1.5 onward:
If
.I stream-object-number
equals -1,
then
.B pdftosrc
decompresses the XRef stream from the PDF file and writes it
in human-readable PDF cross-reference table format to a file named
.IB PDF-file .xref
(these XRef streams can not be extracted just by giving their object number).

In any case
an existing file with the output file name will be overwritten.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH FILES
Just the executable
.BR pdftosrc .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
At success the exit code of
.B pdftosrc
is 0, else 1.

All messages go to stderr.
At program invocation,
.B pdftosrc
issues the current version number of the program
.BR xpdf ,
on which
.B pdftosrc
is based:

.RS
pdftosrc version 3.01

.RE
When
.B pdftosrc
was successful with the output file writing,
one of the following messages will be issued:

.RS
Source file extracted to
.I source-file-name

.RE
or

.RS
Stream object extracted to
.IR PDF-file . stream-object-number

.RE
or

.RS
Cross-reference table extracted to
.IR PDF-file .xref

.RE

.RE
When the object given by the
.I stream-object-number
does not contain a stream,
.B pdftosrc
issues the following error message:

.RS
Not a Stream object

.RE
When the
.I PDF-file
can't be opened, the error message is:

.RS
Error: Couldn't open file
.RI ' PDF-file '.

.RE
When
.B pdftosrc
encounters an invalid PDF file,
the error message (several lines) is:

.RS
Error: May not be a PDF file (continuing anyway)
.RE
.RS
(more lines)
.RE
.RS
Invalid PDF file

.RE
There are also more error messages from
.B pdftosrc
for various kinds of broken PDF files.
.SH NOTES
An embedded source file will be written out unchanged,
i. e. it will not be uncompressed in this process.

Only the stream of the object will be written,
i. e. not the dictionary of that object.

Knowing which
.I stream-object-number
to query requires information about the PDF file
that has to be gained elsewhere,
e. g. by looking into the PDF file with an editor.

The stream extraction capabilities of
.B pdftosrc
(e. g. regarding understood PDF versions and filter types)
follow the capabilities of the underlying
.B xpdf
program version.

Currently the generation number of the stream object
is not supported.
The default value 0 (zero) is taken.

The wording
.I stream-object-number
has nothing to do with the `object streams' introduced
by the Adobe PDF Reference,
5th edition, version 1.6.
.SH EXAMPLES
When using pdftex,
a source file can be embedded into some
.I PDF-file
by using pdftex primitives,
as illustrated by the following example:

\\immediate\\pdfobj
.RE
    stream attr {/Type /SourceFile /SourceName (myfile.zip)}
.RS
.RE
    file{myfile.zip}
.RS
.RE
\\pdfcatalog{/SourceObject \\the\\pdflastobj\\space 0 R}

Then this zip file can be extracted from the
.I PDF-file
by calling
.B pdftosrc
.IR PDF-file .
.SH BUGS
Not all embedded source files will be extracted,
only the first found one.

Email bug reports to
.B pdftex@tug.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdftex (1),
.SH AUTHORS
.B pdftosrc
written by Han The Thanh, using
.B xpdf
functionality from Derek Noonburg.

Man page written by Hartmut Henkel.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1996-2006 Han The Thanh, <thanh@pdftex.org>

This file is part of pdfTeX.

pdfTeX is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

pdfTeX is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with pdfTeX; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
