.TH texconfig 1 "July 2014" "TeX Live" "TeX Live"
.SH NAME
texconfig \- configures teTeX or TeX Live
.LP
texconfig-sys \- configures teTeX or TeX Live system\-wide
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B texconfig
.LP
.B texconfig
[\fB commands\fR ...]
.LP
.B texconfig-sys
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I texconfig
allows one to configure and maintain TeX in an easy and convenient
manner, offering a series of dialog boxes to the user.  The directory in
which \fItexconfig\fP is found is also preferentially used to find
subprograms.
.PP
The
.I tlmgr
program has subsumed this function for TeX Live.  This program
is still supported, but the tlmgr interface is much more actively
developed and tested.
.PP
After choosing settings or options, the appropriate files
are changed automatically and the new settings are applied for the
user.  If needed, copies of files in
.I TEXMFDIST
or
.I TEXMFMAIN
will be made in the user's
.I TEXMFCONFIG
tree.
.PP
.I texconfig
uses either the
.IR whiptail (1)
or
.IR dialog (1)
program to communicate with the user, so must be run in a terminal.
.PP
For making system-wide changes, which will apply to all users of TeX
(for example, default paper size and so on), run
.I texconfig-sys
instead.  Changed or generated files will be placed in
.IR TEXMFSYSCONFIG .
(You may need to be root to do this.)
.PP
.I texconfig
also offers a non-interactive batch mode which can be accessed with
the following commands
.SH COMMANDS
Commands that accept further options usually display available options
if called without them.  For example,
.B texconfig dvipdfm paper
will inform about valid paper settings.
.PP
.B
.IP conf
Display the system configuration.  
.PP
.TP
.B dvipdfm paper [letter|legal|ledger|tabloid|a4|a3]
Set up dvipdfm to use papersize PAPER by default.
.TP
.B dvips add PRINTERNAME
Create a new (empty) configuration file
.I TEXMFCONFIG/dvips/config/config.PRINTERNAME.
This file can later be filled with the
.B mode, offset
or
.B printcmd
options
.TP
.B dvips del PRINTERNAME
Remove
.I config.PRINTERNAME
.TP
.B dvips mode
List available Metafont modes.
.TP
.B dvips [-P PRINTER] mode MODE
Change the Metafont mode to
.I MODE
for
.I PRINTER
or for all output files
.I (config.ps),
if no
.B -P
option is given.
.TP
.B dvips [-P PRINTER] offset x-OFFSET,y-OFFSET
Set printer offset for
.I PRINTER
or for all output files
.I (config.ps),
if no
.B -P
option is given.  Offsets must be given with units, e.g.
.I 0pt,10pt
You can use testpage.tex from the LaTeX distribution to find these
numbers.
.TP
.B dvips [-P PRINTER] printcmd CMD
Set the printing command for
.I PRINTER
or for all output files
.I (config.ps),
if no
.B -P
option is given.  Commands might be
.B lp
or
.B lpr.
See the description of the
.I o
option in
.B info dvips
or the
.I -O
option in
.B dvips(1).
.TP
.B faq
Display the list of Frequently Asked Questions about
.B teTeX
(and their answers).
.TP
.B font vardir DIR, font ro, font rw
.TP
.B formats
This command allows to edit
.B fmtutil.cnf(5)
and (re)creates any new or changed formats afterwards.  
.TP
.B hyphen FORMAT
This command allows to edit the hyphenation configuration file for
formats that support this, and recreates the formats afterwards to
enable the new languages.  Available formats are shown when no
.I FORMAT
is given.
.IP
Note that for formats that use LaTeX's
.I language.dat,
 e.g.
.I (pdf)jadetex
and
.I latex
itself, this change is not persistent, since this file is a generated
file.  You should not use this command in these cases, read
.B update-language(1)
for alternatives.
.TP
.B init [format]
Recreate
.I format
or all formats if none is given, and the font information.  This is
the same as calling
.B fmtutil --byfmt format
or
.B fmtutil --all,
respectively, followed by
.B updmap.
.TP
.B mode-list
List available printer modes, together with the printers they were
developed for, and their DPI resolution
.TP
.B mode MODE
Set the default printer mode in
.I /etc/texmf/web2c/mktex.cnf
or the respective user file in
.I $TEXMFCONFIG/web2c
to
.B MODE.
.TP
.B paper [a4|letter]
Set the default papersize for
.B dvips, dvipdfm, pdftex
and
.B xdvi.
The set is restricted because not all programs understand all sizes.
.TP
.B pdftex paper [a4|letter]
Set the default paper size for
.B pdftex.
.TP
.B rehash
Call
.B mktexlsr.
.TP
.B xdvi paper PAPER
Set the default paper size for
.B xdvi.
The (long) list is available with
.B texconfig xdvi paper.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
To let you change files,
.B texconfig
will open the editor specified in the VISUAL or EDITOR variables, or
.B sensible-editor
if both are unset.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR whiptail (1),
.IR dialog (1),
.IR tlmgr (1),
.IR tex (1),
.IR mf (1),
.IR vi (1),
.IR EDITOR
environment variable.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Esser
